Question 3) The cellular compenent that the coexpressed genes are enriched for is the nucleus.
Colored boxes correspond to different p-values. 

Question 4) A p-value is calculated based on the mean difference in abundance between groups, 
the variance (range over which the abundance values fall), and the sample size. What the p-value
measures is how likely you are to get this compound data if no real difference existed (observed
vs. predicted). A small p-value means that there is a small chance of getting this data, and therefor
that differential expression is significant. 

Thus, the difference between the two ontologies comes 
from the fact that you are more likely to find genes that are localized to (components of) the nucleus in a cell
than for a large number of those same genes to also be involved in DNA replication (ie. there are more genes
which are localized to the nucleus than there are involved in DNA replication, so the fact that you 
are sampling so many genes which are involved in DNA replication at a high frequency is more significant/lower p-value). 

To calculate an FDR, you must first set a cut off value, for which an p-value that is less than your cut off
value is considered significant, or, positive. For example, a p-value of 0.05. A false positive is therefor
when something is called as significant when it reality, it is not. A cut off of 0.05 means that there is a
5% chance something will  be called positive that should not be. 

Question 5) Because this data was generated during the cell cycle, I would predict that they are co-expressed
because they share a similar regulatory mechanism that is triggered prior to DNA replication. The idea being, the genes
were found to be closely correlated according to Pearson's Correlation, meaning they were closely aligned along 
the same vector in space. It follws that this similar slope reflects the biology of being induced by a similar 
regulatory mechanism, resulting in co-expression, and DNA replication takes place. 
